Appreciate you guys being here. My name is Bradley Pounds tonight. I am going to be sharing with you everything that I know when it comes to helping higher earners take advantage of programs that you've probably never heard of before. This help that's been waiting for you out there to help you buy your first home or maybe your first home in a long time.
If you've been telling yourself a story that those programs are only for, like, really low income people and that that's not gonna there's not gonna be any help out there for you. I am really, really excited to prove you wrong tonight, and you're gonna be glad that I'm proving you. You'll never be so happy to be wrong as you will tonight. What I wanna do, though, is I wanna be really clear.
This is not a sermon. This is a two way conversation. So everybody go to the chat box because we're gonna be talking together all night. What I want you to do is I want you to go to the chat box and I want you to do a couple of things for me.
The first thing that I want you to do, let me get my screen share together here. What I want you to do is I want you to tell me about what this is all for. So where is this home that you want to buy? I got a couple of folks coming in from Austin, quite a few folks that are gonna be here, I know from DFW, maybe a couple of a couple from San Antonio.
So I'm gonna put this on the screen. Okay. Audrey. Hi, Audrey. How's it going? Where do you wanna buy a home, Audrey?
I am really eager to learn more about what that home run looks like for you. And everybody else follow Audrey's lead and tell me where is this home that you wanna buy even if that's six or twelve months from now. You know that there's a vision forming. What are the the towns that you would consider, the neighborhoods that you would consider?
And then what does it look like?
So is it a one story? Lizette's here. Tricia's here. Looking at Mansfield. Okay. Fantastic.
You know, what does it look like? Is it a one story? Is it a two story? Can we get away with having three bedrooms or no?
Actually, we both work from home now and we're gonna kill each other if we have to share an office. So no, we need that fourth bedroom. Maybe mom's moving in with us and so we need a non primary bedroom and we need it to be on the first floor because she can't hack the stairs anymore. Like, everybody's needs are gonna be different, and the home run that you wanna create is going to be different from the person beside you in class here.
So go to the chat box and tell me the where and the what.
So where is it? What does it look like? Because that's the thing that kind of gets me excited. We are going to spend the next hour on the how.
Okay? So I will be showing you how to make this happen. Please be ready to take some notes. Okay.
If you're driving and listening on your AirPods or something, you're exempt, but everybody else, I want you to take notes. If for no other reason than because you are going to want to wish that you had, so you can ask better questions later. I will be hanging out after our class and answering questions, and then I will answer questions until the cows come home. Alright?
So let's go to the chat box. Jan is looking Central Texas or The Woodlands rural areas. Okay. Cool.
Sounds like we're making some life decisions about where we want everything to happen there. That's awesome. Amanda is looking in DFW. Erica is a first time home buyer in ATX.
Fantastic.
Audrey is looking in Fort Worth. My son is a first time home buyer. Isn't that cool?
I wish somebody, I wish my mom would have helped me walk me through the process. I could have bought a house so much sooner. So good for you. Tricia's thinking multifamily.
I bet there's a story there. So tell me more about that. Lisette's thinking Arlington Mansfield, kind of like down there in that Southern corridor of DFW. Love it.
Arden says Plano Frisco Allen. Lisette's thinking single family. Okay, fantastic. You know, as we're going to get started right now, I'm sure we're going to have another few folks join us, but I want to honor the fact that you guys were here at on time.
If you want to jump in because you just walked in the door, let us know where this new home is going to be located and what does it look like. And as a bonus, if you wanna tell me the why, like who is this for? I would love to hear about that too. Is it for the grandkids?
Is it for mom because she's moving in? Maybe it's because my adult children left the house and I've been taking care of everybody else's needs for the last twenty five years, and I'm finally gonna take care of mine. I wanna hear that story. Let's jump in because we're gonna start learning.
Now we're talking about programs. We're talking particularly about programs that are built to help people who are higher earners, not like we're not going to talk about programs for super low income folks. We're going to talk about those ones that maybe you think you make too much money to get help. And so you haven't even really looked into it or you tried and it didn't work.
We're going to show you where the good ones are. Okay? So let's dive in in that instance. Some programs it's true are restrictive and tricky to qualify for.
When we think about special programs for first time home buying, we think about government, we think about red tape and bureaucracy stuff, right? So when we, what's true is that a handful of them are like that. But what's also true is that a lot of them aren't like that at all. In fact, tell me if this idea gets you excited.
Some programs appear to be restrictive, but actually have loop holes. That's your first note to take down. I love a good loop hole and let me know if you get excited about loop holes as well. What does it mean?
So what if there's a program that was built for this type of situation over here, but when we, but if you really know the guidelines of the programs like I do, I know that we can also fit maybe your situation into that program because of some exception on page two hundred and one of the rule book. Right? So if you get excited about kind of bending something to fit your situation so that we can sneak you in by the hair on your chin, and then yes, Audrey says we need loopholes. I love a good loophole.
When we get to one of those programs, I am going to tell you which programs we're talking about as far as like exploiting those loopholes to your advantage. Now, some programs frankly are going to make you mad and they're gonna make you mad because if you had just had this information two years ago, you would already be a homeowner for a couple of years now.
And so, you know, there's that old Chinese proverb about what's the best time to plant a tree. It's twenty years ago. What's the second best time? It's today.
Yeah. So we're going to plant some trees today. So, you know, forget the a hundred thousand dollars in rent that you spent over the last three or four or five years to that landlord with the leaky faucet and the bad air conditioner. You know, we're going to start fresh today and we're going to get you something that is, show you how to get something that's actually your own.
Okay. Nobody can take it away from you. Now, go to the chat box and tell me, how are you feeling about this process?
Now, when we think about buying our first home or our first home in a long time, a lot of big feelings come up. Maybe it feels a little bit overwhelming. Does anybody feel a little overwhelmed or kind of stressed out about the idea? Maybe just generally uncertain and kind of frozen in place.
You don't know where to go. Sometimes it's sort of a complicated soup of feelings, right? Because I'm really, really excited and somehow at the same time I am absolutely terrified, maybe terrified of making a mistake. Now, if that describes you, you are a first time home buyer.
Congratulations. That's what all of us felt like whenever we walked through that door. Yes. So our goal tonight is really simple.
Our goal tonight is that I want you to have the very best night of sleep that you've had as it pertains to this stuff in a very long time.
So what you're going to walk away with this evening is a plan.
Some of you are going to figure out that you can go buy a house this Saturday and that's going to be awesome. Most of you are going to walk away with a more concrete plan that you can implement to get you what you want in the next three, six or twelve months.
And you know what that allows you to do? It allows you to stop worrying about it and fretting and it allows you to lay it down. And that's where the relief comes in. So we're going to push your understanding forward.
Hopefully we're going to create a little optimism as well. Once you find out that there are some new ways to do things and better programs that you never heard of. Now I do want you to stay until the end and learn, so I'm going to incentivize you to do that. So I have some free stuff for you if you stay until the end.
So James, my ride or die, is going to take role at the end, and he is going to see who's still around in about forty five minutes. And if you are on that list, he's gonna send you some goodies tomorrow. First goodie is I wrote a one hundred and sixty one page book called The Texas First Time Homebuyer Blueprint. It's everything I know about how to buy a house and really nail it the right way here in Texas.
And it is available on Amazon for twenty nine point nine nine. How about you don't go buy it on Amazon? Tell me in the chat box if this would be helpful. How about you don't go buy it and instead I put a free digital copy in your inbox tomorrow around lunchtime.
Yeah? So if that would be helpful, let me know and I'm happy to share that. Another thing that I'll share with you tomorrow is a free list of the a full list of the sixty five now sixty six programs that we have across the state of Texas to help you purchase your first home. Some of them are very broad.
Some of them are very like narrow, but you're going to have the whole list to further your research. Okay? Now, Is anybody feeling stuck in a long term lease?
If you're feeling stuck in a long term lease, go to the chat box and tell me. That means that you signed a lease through like December or January or March and you're kind of wishing that you didn't do that. Okay, Audrey says, I'm having too many feelings. Remember what it went, what we went through when we did buy our first home.
My son is paying, tired of paying rent. So you know what he's about to go through. Right? Excited, but frustrated, says Arden with interest rates and inflated home prices.
So Arden, if it would be helpful, we'll talk about some hacks to get a lower interest rate than what you've been reading about in the newspaper. Let me know. Okay. And then first time home buyer, Amanda says worries it's a bad time to buy.
We're gonna talk about kind of the window that we're in and the the highs and lows of the window that of time that we're in right now.
And you might be surprised about how a lot of smart buyers are actually doing this because it's a much better time to buy. We'll we'll kind of lay all of that on the table so you can make a good decision about your timing though, Amanda, as we get to that part here in just a moment. Now disclaimer, we are not lawyers. I'm not a lawyer.
I'm not a magician. I am an expert in this field. My name is Bradley Pounds. I'm the founder of this company.
It's called homebuyersschool dot com. So homebuyersschool dot com specifically focuses on first time home buyers. It's all we do all day long. Okay.
So I'm responsible for the sale of several thousand homes across Texas over the last twenty four years. I also have my mortgage loan officer's license. Why? It's not because I think I'm gonna pick up a lot of mortgage business.
It's because I wanted to legally be able to have conversations about things like payment estimating and the actual like regulations inside the programs. And a lot of that stuff realtors aren't supposed to talk about. So I went and got a license so we can have that conversation and give you some clarity around that. I love first time home buyers.
They love me. And if I'm not working with a first time home buyer, you are going to catch me with these guys. This is Ruthie Jake and Kelby Joe. They might interrupt us at any moment to get a good night kiss here a little bit later.
I'm a sixth generation Texan. I'm actually from East Texas. I don't know if anybody, if we have any East Texans in the room, let me know in the chat box. And then I came out here to Austin and a lot of my business is in Austin and DFW and San Antonio.
So I kind of keep that road high. Now here's what I've learned in twenty three now, twenty four years actually, most buyers screw this up.
And it's not that, you know, I'm not, this is not hyperbole. This is a fact in my experience that probably ninety percent of buyers wind up in the wrong house, the wrong deal, or at least bare minimum, they're going to leave money on the table. And my hunch is that you are probably here because one of your fears is ******** this up and you don't want to leave money on the table. If that describes you, let me know.
Now, first time homebuyers make several big mistakes. We don't have time to go over every one of them tonight. We're going to go over what is in my opinion, the biggest mistake. And the biggest mistake is that they don't take advantage of first time homebuyer programs.
Now if you say that out loud, it sounds kind of crazy. Right? First time home buyers don't take advantage of first time home buyer programs. Well, who else?
The answer is nobody. The answer is that the money kind of sits there a lot of times. There are reasons why first time homebuyers don't take advantage of them, and often it's an information gap. There are reasons for that too.
There are people who make more money when you don't take advantage of these programs. If you follow the money, you'll always find that answer. But tonight, what we're going to do is we're going to arm you with the information that you need so that you don't get shoved into some one size fits all program that's not the best option for you, but rather pads somebody else's pockets. Let me know in the chat box if that would feel like a big win for you, knowing that you know what kind of things are out there for you and what resources so that you don't get taken advantage of.
Jamie says, yes, a big win. Okay. Let's go then. Alright? Follow the money, man. Now we're gonna do a little bit of education here because you're gonna have to understand some of these concepts before we light into, like, the actual differences in the programs themselves.
So let's go ahead and jump in. Here are the basics. First of all, what in the world is a first time home buyer program? Well, the answer is that it can be different.
Sometimes it's specific to the location of the home. So if I am on this side of the streets, I qualify for the program or the home I want to buy is on this side of the street, qualify. If I decide to buy a home on the other side of the street, I no longer qualify for the program because of some arbitrary government map. Some programs are dependent upon your income.
You're always going to have to prove without a shadow of a doubt that you can repay the loan, that you can make the mortgage payment. That's basic common sense, right? However, with some programs, they have income caps. And so, you know, for example, with some of the government's programs, the city and county programs, you might run into an income cap as a single person of like sixty five or seventy thousand dollars.
That doesn't work for you. You make too much money. So what we're focusing on tonight are what are the programs that have really high income caps or no income caps at all since you're one of my higher earners. Now some programs may require you to hang on to the home for a few years.
This isn't as common as it used to be. When I first started twenty four years ago, you would have to sign a document that said that you would stay in that house for nine years.
And if you sold it before then you owed the county a piece of the action. Like it was a lot. You don't see that very much anymore. If there's a requirement at all, it's like two to three. Now, some programs may have interest rates that are lower than market rate. That helps to lower the monthly payment and make this whole thing more affordable on the monthly. Some programs are one hundred percent financing, which means that there is no down payment involved.
We don't have to get a grant or anything because the loan covers the entire thing. Now there's another type of program called DPA. Please write that down.
DPA, that means down payment assistance. And that can look a little different depending on what type. We'll talk about those in a minute. But generally what DPA does is it takes a loan that does require a down payment.
If you've heard of an FHA mortgage before, it's great. It's very friendly to first time home buyers because it has like easier credit tolerances and things like that, but it requires three point five percent down payment on a three hundred thousand dollars home that is ten thousand five hundred dollars Well, what happens if you don't have that in your pocket? The answer is that there can oftentimes be a DPA solution, which is where a third party swoops in and in one form or another pays that down payment on your behalf at the closing table. Some programs are based on what kind of job you do.
So if I have any first responders like, you know, firefighters, police officers, if I have any nurses, if I have any educators, sometimes you guys have your own program and sometimes you just have better terms in some of the big state programs, for example. Some programs literally exist because of banks' bad behavior in the 1960s. Put a little star by this one because it's my absolute favorite of them all.
And this comes about because of literally this big dramatic story about organized crime. Okay, so I'm gonna connect the dots for you and you're gonna find out how like the banker mafia caused such a ruckus that now we have a first time home buyer program that's really sweet, really amazing, all because of what they did back in the day. I'll draw that out for you here in just a moment. Now some programs aren't down payment assistance at all, but rather they're like a federal tax credit, for example.
So there's a type of tax credit that can pay you back every year for part of your mortgage interest that you paid the previous year. And that comes as a credit on your income taxes. I'll put a little star by that because that's one of the limited instances of what we would call program stacking. Please write that down.
Are there opportunities to sometimes use more than one program at a time? The answer is in limited instances, there are opportunities to stack one program on top of the other. I'll highlight a good example of that here in just a moment. Now, fun fact, you can be a born again first time home buyer.
What that means is that most of the programs have a rule that says that if you have not owned a home in the last three years, then no questions asked, you are considered a first time home buyer all over again. Bet you didn't know that one. Now inside that, this is one of our first loopholes. What if you did own a home in the last three years, but it was only part of as part of a married couple that you are no longer part of?
What happens with a lot of the programs is that if you sell the house on Friday, get divorced on Monday, you are a first time home buyer again on Tuesday morning. Okay? So that's one of those things that if you're a nerd like I am and know the rule book, sometimes you can exploit those loopholes. Now with sixty plus programs out there, the chances are very high that you have a different problem than what you thought your problem was when you walked in tonight.
So when you came in, you probably were thinking, man, I hope this guy's got some kind of program that I can start getting my ducks in a row and start to pursue over the next X, Y, Z months or whatever. What if your pro problem is very different? What if your problem is instead you qualify in part or all for several programs, And now you have to figure out which one is the best for your situation. Not too big, not too small, but just right kind of Goldilocks.
Yeah. Now what's true about all these programs. Let me be slow, loud and clear about this is that they are built to help you buy a home, not buy it for you. I had a young energetic man in the webinar one time that said, I'm going to stack me a bunch of grants and get me a free house.
And I thought, Oh man, you have so much to learn about life. Nothing works that way. Nobody's gonna move that bus and give you a free house like they did on TV. That is not a thing.
Right? What this is for, and let me be slow, loud, and clear about this. Tell me in the chat box if I'm describing you right now. This is who this is for.
If you work your butt off forty, fifty, sixty hours a week, and you put home runs over the fence for you and the family and whoever else all the time, you make money, but you have, you probably haven't been able to save a down payment. For example, there's some kind of issue where you need just a little boost over the fence. Like you've got this in terms of making that house payment. You just need a little bit of help to get over.
If I am describing you right now, let me know in the chat box because you are the person who these programs are built for. What's true? Mark says, that's me. Joe says, that's me.
Let's go boys. I'm talking about it. Yes. Got a couple of providers there. I can hear it.
Now what's true is that some of the programs have additional secondary benefits like reduced interest rates, which is great because that lowers the payment. Some of them have no monthly mortgage insurance. Now we've lowered the payment again, making it more affordable. That allows us to get more house and kind of stretch the dollar to get more house out of each one.
But what's also true is that most programs are engineered to solve one problem. And that is the down payment problem. Okay. So if you are one of my folks who came in sweating down payment as the number one hurdle between you and purchasing a home, then I want you to give me one of these.
Okay? Because the most resources are geared toward helping you get across that fence. Okay. So if that's you, then down payment was your biggest problem.
FYI, you know, you've got a lot of resources here. Now we're not done. We just talked about the assets bucket, right? Down payment, but we still need to talk about two more buckets.
Here's the next one. This is the hardest problem to solve. Down payments, the easiest problem to solve. Income is the hardest problem to solve.
I do not have a a magic wand. I gotta take this question because I can't resist it. We'll do q and a later, but this one was too juicy. Mark says, even if it's a multifamily property, there are down payment assistance programs on multifamily, Mark, but I'm gonna be coach Brad here.
I'm gonna be dad for a second. If you don't have cash in the bank, a duplex or a fourplex will be the end of you. Okay? It's a terrible idea.
I don't care what they say on the flyer, and I'm happy to talk that talk worry about getting Mark's house first if cash is a little bit light, and then we'll use that as a springboard into the duplex, and I'll teach you how to do that. But otherwise, it will take you down, brother. And trust me, I've seen it happen. We'll talk about that in q and a.
Put a little pin by that. Yes? Because I know everybody wants to do duplexes. It is cool, but we gotta crawl before we walk.
All right. Now let's talk about income. That was good though. Let's talk about income. Income is the hardest problem to solve.
I don't have any little pixie dust to put on top of the file to boost income.
Income can be a lot of different things though, and a lot of things put together. Now here's what this can look like. The computer underwriting is done by a computer algorithm. Now the loan underwriting is done by an algorithm and the computer loves the salary.
So if you are a salaried person, tap in in the chat box because that is something that is going to work well in your favor. Okay? It understands the predictability and stability of a of a salary and loves it. Doesn't mean that we're out if we have full time hourly income, it just means that we have board approved about the track record of that income over the last two years.
It also doesn't mean that we're out if we have several part time gigs, but we have to be able to prove that those are really consistent over the last couple of years. Otherwise, the lender will not be willing to count those in most instances. Now our self employed folks are still very much in the game. If you are self employed, tap in in the chat box and let me know.
Self employed folks, we do have an extra step though because we have a lot to prove. My self employed folks, what do we love to do at tax time? What do we love to do if we're ten ninety nine or k one self employed?
We like to get real cute with the IRS, and we like to deduct everything down to where it looks like we made about forty seven cents last year. Right, Amanda? Like, if you're self employed, you know this game. It's very tempting to deduct everything so that that adjusted gross income is very low.
That adjusted gross income is the only number that matters. However, here's the rule. Write this down. If you are self employed or have gig income like Uber or something like that.
The rule is if it didn't happen on the tax return, it didn't happen. Okay? So you wouldn't be the first person if you're in that situation to have to go file an amended tax return, pay the IRS kind of what you owed them the whole time, and so that you can actually prove that you make some money to to buy a home. Okay?
I had to do that when I bought my first one, the way. It's very humbling. Child support income can count, not if the child is fifteen years or older, because obviously that child is going to not be a child for very much longer. Government income like social security can count.
So let's say that you're a retired person and you have your retirement income from your job or your four zero one ks, and then you have social security. We could stack that on top of one another. Maybe you even have a part time job the last couple of years. We can stack that all together and make an income three layer cake.
Okay. And all of that can be considered. Co signer income can boost the profile for income of the file. It cannot help the credit score, but it can help the income.
And then any other regular predictable income sources can be counted. Now I just revealed what that third bucket is, what the boogeyman is for a lot of people, The boogeyman for a lot of folks is credit score.
And so we got a small group tonight. We keep it in the family here. I'm not going to be like sharing this recording. So if you have a credit score concern, it's okay.
You can let us know in the chat box. I bet you, you are not the only person. In fact, in twenty twenty six, when groceries cost three times what they used to, and we're having to use credit cards more than we'd really like to, like most people, if you poke your head outside, have a credit score concern right now. But I want you to relax because I do want you to understand that you have more leverage over your credit profile than what you think, okay?
And I have to be your coach here for a moment, and I got to sort of tough love you. Is it okay if I tough love you for a second?
If you don't get over that very adolescent fear you have of having your credit reviewed by a mortgage lender, a good local mortgage lender who knows programs, you will never move forward. Okay? It means that you are not a serious buyer. I'm not being ugly.
You don't have to leave the webinar. We can still hang out, but it does mean that this is not your time if you're not willing to walk through that door. Also, if you won't do that, you will never find out what kind of help you could have qualified for. So I know that you're nervous about that.
Don't know who I'm talking to in the room, but there's at least one or two of you who are in this situation kind of stuck and frozen scared of your credit score. And listen, that we've been taught to kind of fear that judgment around that one number, but you got to get over that. Is it going to sting when you see it? If it's a little lower than what you were hoping?
Yeah, it stings for three to five seconds. And then what happens is that that kind of bleeds off. And then it just, you're looking at a number and now you're looking at a number with me looking over your shoulder going, okay, here's how we're going to get ten points over here. Here's how I think we can get fifteen points over here.
Here's the account we need to open up. Here's what we got to pay down by five hundred bucks. And now you have somebody who can actually help you to take control over what that score looks like. So if credit was the boogeyman for you, give me one of these because you have way more control over that than what you think.
We have a really good credit repair referral. If you want to get some professional help as well, she works fast. We'll talk about that later. Now, the good news around credit, and there is a lot of good news around credit is that the programs that we're going to talk about do not require you to have great credit.
A lot of them have requirements that you have sort of fair to the top end of bad credit. So relax. In fact, some programs with a small down payment would allow you to purchase a home all the way down to five eighty. Now, is that the right call?
Is it just because you can do that, should you do that? I'm going to argue that no, you should not.
And what you should do instead, you had, let's say a five sixty or a five eighty or even a six hundred is you probably should pump the brakes for a hot second. And we should do a couple of things to get that score up because the rule of thumb is that the program, some of them technically become eligible or possible at six hundred. They become a lot more feasible at six twenty.
And then at six forty, a lot of them, the world is kind of your oyster. Okay. So we don't have to get up into the seven hundreds for most of these programs. So relax.
If that was your big concern, by the way, if you are checking your score, I'm going to kill the screen share for just a moment. So we can drive this home. If you are checking your score on, let's say credit karma, that is not your mortgage credit score. If you're using like, if you have a credit card and it has the credit wise thing where once a month that tells you what your free credit score is, It's not your credit score, not for mortgages.
And it's not a lie either. Let me tell you how this works. You know that you have three bureaus. So when you get that free score, you're only seeing one of them.
But moreover, what you're seeing is what's called the FICO eight version of the score. Please write that down.
The FICO eight version is legitimate. It is what they would use to qualify you for, let's say a credit card. It is not what the mortgage guys use to qualify you for a mortgage. The mortgage guys use FICO four, and that is always behind a paywall where you have to pay a certain amount of money to get to that FICO four or have a mortgage lender pull that for you. Now, one of the benefits, one of the reasons that I got my mortgage license is so that I could do that for you for free if you choose to take advantage of that help.
But the great news is that your credits, you have more control over it than what you think. Okay? It's probably the second easiest problem to solve. Alright. So now we are done with the education.
So now we can move forward to did somebody just throw a Mark just threw that ace on the table.
Like so hey. Hey. I tell you what. Let's all hit up Mark, and we'll borrow some points.
I'm kidding. Wouldn't I wish it works like that? Yeah. Okay, well, let's congratulate Mark. Hello.
He's busted his butt and taking care of stuff. He might not have always been a seven ninety five. If you were always a seven ninety five, be a buddy and keep that information to yourself. Okay, so we'll stop giving Mark a hard time.
Now that we understand this stuff though, we can get into the actual particulars of the programs themselves. So if you haven't started taking notes yet, please, this is the time because this is when it gets nerdy and granular. Yes, Some programs we are big energetic major fans of. I want to put a big, I want somebody to go stand outside that bank with one of those signs, you know, those spinny signs so that we can get more attention on this and get more people to be homeowners.
It's just that people don't know about the program. It's amazing. Some programs are what we would call yellow light programs. They are legitimate, but there's some kind of like string that has, there's some kind of catch, maybe a long waiting list or something like that.
If we encounter a program that has that caution light on it, I will place big orange traffic cones around it so that you'll know, hey, that one's okay, but it's got an issue. And then some programs are just playing on what I call the no fly list, meaning they get a lot of attention, but they always disappoint people and I think they're garbage.
And I'm happy to call them out and throw rocks at them if you guys want me to in the Q and A session. Let's jump into some programs that we love that are statewide. Okay? So this is for anybody anywhere in the state of Texas.
There's a little star by that because there's some pockets that are like a little bit ineligible or have lower income limits. We'll kind of put orange cones around that, but we'll start off with two very easy programs that are very similar in nature. So the two state agencies that offer down payment assistance are called TDHCA and TSHAC. This rolls off the tongue, right?
Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs and then Texas State Affordable Housing Commission. I think I got it right. So these two entities offer similar down payment assistance programs. And here's the great news.
You do not have to wait in line for them. In fact, there is no extra application. There is no extra paperwork for you. You fill out a regular loan application with a lender that is approved for either or both of these programs, and then they do the paperwork for you on the back end.
The computer handles everything, and it tells them instantly whether you are eligible for either or both of programs and which one would have a lower rate and cheaper fees for you. So this is an absolute express lane. Oops, express lane when it comes to getting down payment assistance. How does it work?
Well, what they do is they pair with a regular mortgage that does require a down payment. So think FHA three point five percent down payment or conventional five percent minimum down payment. And what they'll do is they kind of swoop in and pay the down payment for you. Yes.
And that can look a little different sometimes. Sometimes it's an outright grant. It's just free money. And then sometimes it is a situation where it's like a forgivable second lien, which means as long as you stay in the home for about three years, then that second lien, that little loan falls off.
So your payment goes down and it just goes away. Yeah. So we'll talk about some other flavors of that whenever we get into the builder opportunities as well. Not a lot of extra paperwork.
So what's the downside, Brad? The downside is that anytime you take down payment assistance money, that interest rate is going to go up. The question is by how much? And that depends on the day.
That depends on what a bureaucrat had for breakfast that morning in Austin, and it depends on the markets in which program. Okay? Now, depending on where you're at, these programs have increased their loan limits. I'll give you an example.
On July ninth, the TDHCA program or TSHAK, I can't remember which one is increasing their loan limit for a family of four, I think up to two hundred thousand dollars So we're not talking about an eighty thousand dollars loan limit or not a loan limit, excuse me, income limit. You can make up to two hundred thousand as of July ninth in the DFW Metro, if you, and I think it's even like a family of one to four. I'll have to go back and check the guidelines. Maybe we can do that in Q and A.
Anyway, that's just one flavor of DPA. There are other flavors of DPA that don't have any income caps whatsoever, but the interest rate is going all going to be higher than what we could get if we put a down payment down. Now, what if we have a bonus program?
So what's an example of where we could stack a program TDHCA, if you use their down payment assistance program also offers an opportunity to get into the MCC program. This has its own income limit, but it's been raised in the past as well. So it's higher than it used to be.
This is where you bolt on a second program that actually refunds part of what you paid last year in your mortgage interest up to two thousand dollars a year. And so as long as you hold on to that loan, then you get to hold on to that check every year, that credit against your taxes. Now, if you don't if you're a person who doesn't owe a lot of income taxes because you have a lot of other grants or something, this isn't as helpful as it would be for me or Amanda as self employed people who often cut checks to the IRS. Yes, let's move on to another really killer statewide program. This is called USDA. The USDA program is for rural home loan, rural home ownership.
And you say, Hey Brad, that's not for me because I don't want to buy in a rural area. Okay, yes, but this is our first loophole. The loophole is this, the USDA program uses old census data. So they're looking at maps that are like basically basing their decision off of maps from several years ago.
And so a lot of the places where they're building new neighborhoods are still considered rural, even in the DFW Austin and San Antonio metros. And so if we were to, you know, take a look at Austin, for example, everything in the white space is eligible for USDA zero down, same thing with DFW, they just updated the map. And so we just lost this bit right here at three eighty right in Princeton, but we still have this part of Princeton, for example, we lost part of Forney, but we have the outskirts of Forney where they're actually building. We still have parts of Converse down in San Antonio.
So there's a lot of places where we can get zero down and a very favorable interest rate. So that's the juice with USDA, zero down and very favorable interest rate, lower mortgage insurance every month. So you end up with a lower payment. Some of the builders will offer their promotional rate for FHA that you can't get with down payment assistance on FHA.
We're talking like a three point nine nine percent interest rate to four point nine nine percent interest rate with some of the big builders.
A lot of them will transfer that rate to USDA. So put a little star by this. If you want to buy in the outer burbs of one of the metros and you like the idea of putting down no down payment and having a low interest or low monthly payment as well. This is one of those instances where you can have your cake and eat it too.
Okay. I'll put a little star by that if that applies to you. Okay. Now for our veterans in the room, if you are a veteran, please go to the chat box and self identify so that we can show you some love.
The very least that we could do as a country is to offer you one to two programs for your home purchase. Everybody knows about VA loans. I wanna point out a couple of things for my vets in the room. However, some things that are a little bit less well known about the VA program.
VA is great. It's the best deal running. It's zero percent down. It has no monthly mortgage insurance and there are certain tax benefits also, if you have a military disability rating, particularly a hundred percent.
So, you can get a much lower payment if you're in one of those situations. What are the quirks about VA loans? Well, number one, there is a high funding fee that gets rolled into the loan and they don't exactly put this on the brochure.
So if you're one of my vets in the room, know that VA is probably still a screaming deal, but unless you have a military disability rating of some kind, you're subject to a funding fee and that funding fee gets rolled into the loan and it's large, it's two to three point three percent. Okay. Depending on if it's your first time using the loan or not. So that's not exactly disclosed upfront in the way that it should be in my opinion.
Second thing is that it's the only loan that requires you to be married to your sweetie. If you want to buy a house with that individual. Yeah. So it's it's part of, I don't know.
I know it's a little bit of a quirk. Can't buy a house with your girlfriend. I've seen a lot of people get married to use their VA loans. Okay, quick check-in.
I'm a nerd about this stuff. I could go on all night, but I don't want to bore you. Are you learning anything new? Should we keep going?
If not, we could totally call it for the night and go put our feet up and watch ninety day fiance.
If you want to keep going, let me know in the chat box.
Jaime says, keep going. Kathy says, yes. Mark says, what about NACA? NACA is the worst. It's trash.
It's absolutely. And I say that because they disappoint tens of thousands of people every year. I I it is the absolute worst and they have the biggest megaphone. We'll talk about that in q and a.
I shouldn't say trash. That makes that's ugly, but it's not good. Okay. I had an assistant wait in line for a NACA grant before she ever started working for me because obviously I would have never let that happen, but she waited in line for three and a half years.
She was promised an eight thousand dollars grant. They made her do classes, events, and community service and she never got her money. She paid a landlord about fifty some odd thousand dollars in rent in those three and a half years. So single mom too, they did her dirty dirty.
Yeah, and that happens all the time. So FYI, if you want me to flesh that out more and throw more rocks at NACA, I'm happy to do that in Q and A. Let's get out of the government sphere though and keep learning. We're gonna move into the private sector.
So what about some private programs? Okay, here is my big dramatic story. Okay, remember I promised you some tea. I promised you a story about organized crime and a bunch of nefarious things that led to my favorite first time home buyer program.
Here it is. So the banks, you and I know that the banks do illegal stuff all day long, right? And they get sued and they pay their money and they pay the fine and then they go do it again. Yep.
Well, that's been since the beginning of banks, I believe. But in the fifties, sixties and seventies, they did something that was outright malicious and evil. And that practice was called red lining. What red lining was is think about this.
Let's say everybody here on the webinar tonight, we all live in a community and we work at the factory and we pay our, we get our paychecks and we take them down and we put them in that community bank. So funny thing happens though. They have our checking accounts and our savings account, they've got our money, but when we go to get credit, we get a note. We get a decline and we're like, what?
That's weird. I can't get a home loan from them. Even though they've got my money, I can't get a car loan. I can't get business credit.
When we pull the records of the bank, they're making loans like crazy, but they're only making them to their cronies across the tracks, their buddies on the golf course, on the other side of town, That practice is called red lining, taking our money and lending it not in our community. So, you know, every now and then the government really gets it right. Okay. And in nineteen seventy seven, this is so like crafty.
The the congress passed a law and they said, hey, banks, we know what you guys love to do. Banks love to eat other banks so that they can grow, grow, grow. Well, if you wanna grow beyond this size, you have to you have to commit to making X number of loans in your communities that you actually serve. So here's what's happened. A lot of these banks to satisfy their community reinvestment act requirement have first time home buyer programs that you have never heard of because they basically make the program to satisfy the government. And then the program like lives in a drawer somewhere. Okay?
So what happens is sometimes these programs are really favorable. They'll pay your closing costs. They have a lower down payment requirement. They don't charge monthly mortgage insurance, but if you were to walk in that bank branch, even today in twenty twenty six, they will pretend like it doesn't exist unless you ask exactly the right question to exactly the right person.
So there's one bank in the state of Texas that I'm really crazy about however, who is making like really banging the drum out there about their CRA product. I don't get paid by this bank. I wish I did because I've sent them so much business. It is because this product is legitimately amazing if you can qualify for it.
And that's Cadence Bank. Now they recently got acquired by Huntington bank, but they have committed to keeping the program. So we have loans going with them right now with CRA and it's killer. Here's what the deal is.
If you look at the DFW Metro, I'll put it up on the screen right now.
There's DFW right there. For example, Austin, this is true for you as well. If we look at DFW and Houston, San Antonio, we have to flip to a different vendor because they're not quite in San Antonio just yet. But if we look at DFW, there it is. I'm gonna put two colors on the screen.
If you see either of these colors pop up, I call them apartment beige or Nickelodeon slime green. If not old enough to remember when they used to slime people on Nickelodeon, please be a buddy, keep that information to yourself. But for the rest of us, if you see either of the colors pop up on the map, you're looking at an area that would qualify for zero percent down, no income cap, you could make three hundred grand a year if you want to, and no monthly mortgage insurance. So it's cheap on the front end because no down payment.
It is cheap on the monthly because you have no monthly mortgage insurance. The rate is really competitive and it's cheap to buy it down as well. And by the way, they have lower closing costs and that would apply to roughly sixty five ish percent of the DFW Metro. So FYI, and there's even some pockets here where I can get an exception on.
So FYI, this program, you've never heard of it because the banks don't make very much money on it. And even though each one of the banks has something kind of similar, they will not talk about it. That's the big challenge. We love, love, love this series of programs.
The big challenge with it is that it gets no airtime whatsoever. The banks kind of pretend like they don't exist. The only other challenge is that the requirements in terms of debt to income are a little bit tighter, more like a conventional loan. So they're not gonna let you buy as much house as an FHA program would for instance.
So if you're really trying to max out like how much house you could buy, it might not be the right choice for you because they have tighter income restrictions or tighter debt to income restrictions rather. Now here's what's cool. In the last few months, a war has broken out. This is for everybody who's considering new construction.
If you are thinking about a new build, you should know that the weather just got a lot better for you because the builders are finally, finally competing for the business on zero down. They have taken notice that the economy is in such a state that people are not able to save like they used to.
And so they're finally not just providing in house programs with their preferred lenders, but rather they are now competing on those programs. So here's what we're seeing. And for the first time in a very long time, maybe ever is that they're offering in house lending programs with their preferred lenders that are, that have interest rates in the fives. If we were to look at the par rates, which is the rate before buying the interest rate down on like a T Shack or a TDHCA program, that's well into the sixes right now.
But with these, they're also, they're actually offering them all the way down to five and a quarter is what I have seen over the last thirty days, even though rates have been bouncing around. Now here's the kicker. Some of them will go all the way down to six hundred minuteimum FICO. Now that's FICO four.
So we'd have to look at your FICO fours, not your credit karma scores. Those are out the window, but FYI, situation is getting better, not worse. Hallelujah. That's awesome.
There's also a lender who's kind of come from behind called Supreme lending that is offering a program for resale homes that they'll go down lower on the credit score all the way down to six hundred is where they start to become eligible. And it has no income cap whatsoever. So if you are a higher earner with less than perfect credit, you are not out of the game. Okay.
We might have to tweak a couple of things to get the best deal, but I want you to have some optimism there and that's there's more reason to be excited than there really ever has been. Now that leads us to what I call the secret ninja DIY do it yourself down payment assistance program that probably half of this room has been sitting on this entire time and had no idea about. Okay. So let me pose a scenario.
What if, you know, when you see these builders post a billboard that says three point nine nine percent interest and you think that's, that's gotta be fake, right? Because interest rates are at in the sixes. I read this, I read it in the New York times. I saw it on the television.
Well, what happens is that the builders own mortgage companies or have backend deals with mortgage companies. And when they get to a certain size, they have an ability to do something called a forward commitment. And that's basically where they go to wall street and they place a bet on a big pot of money And wall street gives them the money for cheaper. Basically I'm oversimplifying it, but that's really how it works.
Okay. So what happens is that they can now use that to advertise something like a, I have a deal going on right now that has a three point five percent interest rate. They're paying like probably forty grand to get that interest rate down, but they're doing it. And the client is getting to benefit from that.
But you have to have a small down payment, three point five percent to unlock that crazy low interest rate. Well, what happens if you want that really cheap monthly payment, but you do not have three point five percent down in your checking account. Again, on a three hundred thousand dollars home, that's about ten thousand five hundred bucks. So here's the answer that a lot of you didn't realize that you have.
If you have a four zero one ks at your job, you're probably sitting on your own down payment assistance program. Now before you panic because you've had the daylight scared out of you about ever withdrawing anything from your four zero one k before you're fifty nine and a half years old, here's the loophole because we love a good loophole, yes? The loophole is that you can do a loan from yourself. So you become the bank in this instance and you borrow usually the benefits managers, even if you don't have that much money in there, they'll let you borrow up to about half of what is in there.
Remember, we only need three point five percent of the sales price. So if you borrow that from yourself, then what happens is that you pay it back to yourself every month, one hundred and fifty or two hundred bucks at a time over the course of the next five years at an interest rate of probably seven percent interest, but you're the bank, you earn the interest. So your retirement account actually can come out ahead in a lot of instances because now you've put that money back in and kind of made up for the fact that you took it out and it wasn't earning money. It allows you to undercut your monthly payment by hundreds and hundreds of dollars per month.
When you see the math on a three hundred thousand dollars house at three point five percent interest versus six point eight seven five, it is staggering. We're probably talking about five hundred bucks at that point. Okay. And I'm happy to do that math with you in Q and A if you want, But sometimes it is the ninja move that smart people are making to help themselves unlock the low payment and have their cake and eat it too.
Now, tonight we have hit on some of the most important special programs for first time home buyers.
We only have so much time together, which is why I'm giving you more resources, right? We can't possibly get to all sixty plus programs in one hour. There are programs like obscure professional programs. There's a credit union in West Texas that will lend a hundred percent financing on your home if you are a dentist.
Why randomly dentists? Probably because the president's son or daughter is a dentist. That's what I'm gonna guess it's a Nepo baby situation. I have no idea.
There are also what we call repair loan programs. Now these require a small down payment, but they would allow you to borrow not just the money to buy a fixer upper house, but to get the money to fix it up. Now, numbers have to work. You got to use an approved contractor.
That process is about as much fun as a root canal. I'm not going to BS you. However, is it possible to buy a house closer to downtown in an older neighborhood that's in bad shape and then, you know, revitalize it and then get the upside from that. Maybe do that every couple of years and skip the capital gains.
Yes, it is possible. Okay. So FYI, those types of resources are out there, but, know, we don't have to learn all of that in one night. What I wanted to do tonight, I told you at the top of the call was this.
I want you to resist when someone tries to shove you into a one size fits all program. In fact, if you are on board with that, I want you to go to the chat box and I want you to type, will not.
Because if you type, I will not, what you're telling me is that you will not allow yourself to be forced into a program that is not the one for you. That's not positive for you, but rather is easier for someone else because they don't know how to do special programs or worse and more common, more profitable for someone else because they get to make more loan commission on it or because their bank gives them a bonus if they sell it this way and not the other way. So if you will, Karen says, will not Audrey, Amanda, Victor, Anna, Lisette. All right, let's go guys.
You know, that's what I wanted for you is I wanted you to have that kind of like defense. So if somebody does try to push you into one of those programs, you get up and you leave and call their manager on the way out. Now, let me ask you, how are you feeling now? We just did all of that in fifty two minutes, by the way, is anybody feeling a little more optimistic?
Is anybody feeling a little more empowered? Maybe less overwhelmed by the whole idea. Audrey says, I'm going to get up and leave. That's right.
Is anybody feeling a little less stressed out? I want to hear from you if you've had any degree of transformation here tonight, even if it is, man, I feel about thirty percent more confident. I'm ten percent less stressed out about this idea. Maybe you'll get a better night's sleep about this stuff.
A little bit less stress, less stress. I'll take that all day. Let's go. Now, was this a good use of an hour on a random weeknight?
I want you to go type yes in the chat box. If so, you had a long day at work and you probably almost didn't show up, right? I can't blame you because you were tired. Maybe you just wanted to sit on the couch and watch ninety day fiance.
Don't start that show if you haven't already. It will rot your brain. But will will absolutely take that. Yes.
Yeah. Let's go. Okay. Now let's talk about you for a moment. Do you feel more confident in your knowledge of the special programs?
Sure, is there more to learn? Absolutely, but do you kind of feel like, yes, I have my arms around, this is how they work and this is what they're looking for and this is what a good program looks like next to a bad program. If you kind of, Jan says, when formative, okay, I'll take that. Now who wants to know exactly what you should do next?
Type yes in the chat box if you, now that you know what you know, want to keep this momentum and learning going. And if you want to know exactly what foot to put in front of the other so that you can learn more. Dwight says yes. Jan says any legit grant programs?
Kathy says yes. We're gonna do Q and A here in just a moment, but if you wanna know exactly what to do, let me tell you what your job is. Okay? I've thrown a lot of information at you.
You do not have to learn all of this in one night. Frankly, it is not your job. Okay? It's my job.
Yeah? You do have a job though. I am giving you a job right now. So please write this down.
Your job is to tell me what you really want. You see my baseball player there. He's coming in for the home run. I want you to focus on that term.
What is the home run for you? Where is this house? What does it look like? What is the financial home run-in terms of what is the down payment that would need to be true?
What is the monthly payment that would need to be true to make it work for you? And I'm not talking about the monthly payment where we can't go to the movies and we'd have to eat Ramen. That's not what we're doing here. That's not the point.
Yeah. But what does that look like? I want to hear from you because you've heard me talk for an hour. I want to hear from you what this home run looks like.
And then you let me worry about how to make that happen. Okay. And here's how you will do that. So we're going to put up on the screen right now, a link and that link goes to my calendar.
I am the only person who takes these calls. These are short fifteen minute, like tell me about your situation and I'll give you plan A, plan B, plan C, plan D what to do if I were you. Okay. It's very, very straightforward.
I want to hear about you and your home run. If you're a busy person, then you need to run over there right now because I don't have that many appointments, especially later in the day this week. So make sure that you run over there and get something that works for you. If you can't find something that works for you, hit James up in the chat box and you guys can talk about it offline on text and see if we can't come up with something, But I want you to go book that appointment because what we're going to do is we are going to strategize based on what your situation looks like today and what that home run you want to look like tomorrow.
And then we're going to go plan a is this plan B is this plan C? And I'm going to be really honest with you. Sometimes we are on plan J before the thing ignites, but the good news is that you and I are smart people. And so if we work that problem continually, we will find a way to make this work.
Even if that is just putting you on a path for making it work six to twelve months from now. Some of you are going to figure out that you could have bought a house over the last two years, no problem. If you would have had some information and you're gonna wanna go see houses on Saturday morning and that's okay. We'll make that happen.
Most of you are making a plan for months or even a year from now, and that's okay too. Yes, but make sure that you take advantage of this while the information is kind of hot in your brain. By the way, I know that everybody's busy, but I, you know, I got three little kids and I run a business. If you're, I'm going to just be real honest with you.
If you have what I call train wreck tendencies, meaning like you don't show up for your appointments, I am begging you, please don't book the appointment because somebody else here who's legitimate needs that appointment. Somebody else who's like serious about making this happen for her family needs that appointment. So please, if you've booked it, but you know, you're kind of train wrecky and don't show up for stuff, then go cancel it. Okay.
No judgment around there. It's just that we don't have time for that. And everybody here who wants a crack at doing this really deserves it. Okay.
So just be respectful of their time and mine. Okay. What we're not going to do on this call is you're not going to hire me as your realtor. You are not going to sign anything.
It is not going to go down like that. In fact, I'm probably going to have my cowboy boots up on the desk and I'm going to be listening and taking notes. And then we go into, okay, here's what I think we should do. Here's how many points we need to get up on the credit score.
Here's what, how we're going to do that. And you're going to walk away feeling probably six inches taller and maybe twenty pounds lighter. It's like Ozempic.
You're going to feel lighter because you don't have to carry this all by yourself and all of this stress. You don't have to carry that uncertainty because now you have a plan. And even if that plan is for twenty twenty seven, that is a hundred percent okay. Now, you know what you're working toward and how you're going to do it.
And you're not going to do it in a way that pads somebody else's pockets at XYZ bank. You're going to do it in a way that gets you the best deal and creates the best long term home run for you and those people that may, maybe you're providing this for. Maybe some of, maybe you might be a single fella who is doing this to create a nest so that you draw, you know, attract somebody into your life and have kids later. I've seen that happen quite a few times.
You can be a provider even if you're not providing for someone yet. This is what it looks like to actually make stuff happen. And I get really excited about having a front row seat to watching you guys, not just buy a house, because let's be honest, that's not all that it's about. It's about moving forward in your life.
And it's about sometimes leaving a bad situation behind, leaving a different life behind and kind of starting over in a new place or starting over in a new environment that's all yours.
Your big boy or your big girl house, where you actually are the king or the queen of that castle and making this happen for whoever comes next to him. So I get excited about that stuff. So make sure that you guys go click that link that is on the screen. I'm gonna ask James to paste that a couple of times, make it really easy for folks to go find because I'm gonna show you guys a couple of stories really quickly as you go book your appointments, and then we're gonna go to q and This is Buddy and Rocio.
Buddy and Rocio, it's kind of funny. They were not very confident that they were gonna find a home that they really loved. You know? They thought, well, you know, I just don't know if, we're going to find something that we're really excited about for the payment that feels good for us.
Then of course, this is a picture taken two months after the webinar in front of their new castle.
Is Peter and Esther. Peter and Esther, super cool like story. They grew up in Nigeria and seven years ago, they came over here. They did everything the right way.
They, you know, they saw what you and I have here as Americans when they were children back in Nigeria, watching American television, Saturday morning cartoon style. And they saw what we have and they said, Hey, this is what we want. So they got together. They came over here.
He works for the state. She stays home with the little girl who's the cutest.
And Peter had a misunderstanding about property taxes. So it was a Tuesday that they came to the webinar. Actually, let me scratch that. Esther came to the webinar.
Peter had no idea. Esther booked a call with me. Peter had no idea, but he's a very smart man. And so he showed up for that call with her when she told him that we're going to talk to this Brad guy.
And I could hear him kind of in the background, ask him this, ask him this. I'm like, Esther, just give Peter the phone, put me on speaker. Well, it turns out he had a misconception about property taxes and he didn't understand that you could pay them kind of slowly, partially with your payment so that you didn't have to come up with all this money at once. And so we cleared that out of the way.
Their call was at eleven forty five. It was at twelve thirty when they said, Hey, is there any way that we can go see houses today? This picture was taken at three forty five when they found their dream house. And they left us a testimonial that will make you cry.
Sometimes it's not about like running out and buying a house on Saturday. Sometimes it's about getting some ducks in a row so that you can qualify for a home a little bit later. And so if you're on that six to twelve month plan, that's amazing because we're going to put you on the right path so that you don't have to sweat this anymore. As you guys go book your appointment or after you go book your appointment, please make sure that you get your questions in the chat box because I want to answer.
I'll stay until the cows come home. Okay. Answering questions. We can look at the USDA map.
I can teach you how to do that yourself. I can teach you how to do the search, the CRA map as well. What else can I do? I could, if you already had a house that looked interesting and you wanted to run a payment estimate on it, we could do that.
You know, run a ballpark kind of rough cut payment estimate. Payment estimates are hard in Texas. You've already learned this that you can't trust the mortgage calculators on Zillow and stuff because taxes and insurance are so variable and interest rates are bouncing all over the place depending on what program you are interested in. So you kind of need somebody who is a nerd and does all of this stuff all day long.
If you really want a reliable payment estimate, but I'm happy to do that in Q and A, or if you just have a general question. So if you want to spend that time with me, tell me about that home run, go book that appointment. Then I'm going to turn my attention now to the chat box because I haven't been able to look and I'm going to answer your questions. We've got a small group tonight, which means that we can kind of do whatever we want to.
And like I said, I will stay until the cows come home to get your question answered. Okay.
Let's see.
Are there any possible for, are any of these possible for a mobile home purchase? The answer is yes, Karen. As long as, as long as you are purchasing a mobile home that has never been moved. So like, you know, we get it from the dealer.
It is moved to the property. If somebody buys that structure and moves it elsewhere, it is not financeable anymore. Okay. The act of moving it makes it not financeable.
It can't be older than I can't remember what the year is. I'd have to go back and look at the guidelines. It's pretty old. It has to be properly attached to the land, both physically to a foundation.
And it also has to be attached to the land in terms of legal attachment. So people don't realize that oftentimes when you just sort of drag a mobile home onto a piece of land, if you don't properly attach it, what it's called surrendering it to the land, then it's personal property. It's not real estate. And so we have to have all of those things happen.
Yes. Okay. Let's go Tricia. Tricia said, but the answer is yes, we can. Okay.
Probably an FHA based program, Karen, but when you book your appointment, let's go through what some of the options are so that you can get what it is that you're looking for. Probably I'm gonna guess you're looking manufactured because you wanna go get your little piece of the country. Tell me in the chat box if I'm right. Tricia says, I'd like a four bedroom, two bedroom or two bath with a gourmet kitchen and an office if possible. If anywhere considers rural in DFW Tarrant County, any green areas will do. Tell me what green means to you.
But there are not, in Tarrant County, there's not going to be a lot of rural.
However, there are alternative programs that we can use. We're not just boxed in with, what do you call it? USDA. Okay.
We've got some other tricks up our sleeve there, like green on the map in terms of USDA. Yeah, Tarrant's not gonna be super friendly to USDA because Tarrant's kind of built. However, we'll have some alternative options for programs that could still get you to the end result, which is zero percent down. Okay.
Let's do.
Okay. Let me go back up. I have James is reminding me that I also promised you guys to let you know about how you might be able to get out of your lease as well And also a fifty dollars Amazon gift card that you have the opportunity to earn. So I will tell you about those things in a minute.
Thank you for that reminder. Audrey says, son wants to purchase a home before his lease is up, I think in six months. Okay, great. So Audrey, what's interesting is we probably should probably jump on this now, especially if he's interested in new construction because the builders have sold a lot of their quick delivery.
The builders slowed down their starts at the beginning of the year. So most of them are out of homes to sell that are ready right now. It's not true everywhere, but a lot of them are selling dirt now. And so sometimes it takes a few months to build those, especially if we have to get a couple of things like maybe if we need to upgrade his credit or anything like that in the short term, then we'd want some runway to get that done.
So absolutely let's chat.
Okay, let's do Okay, fantastic. Okay, so Karen, you would be looking for The builder will have some financing options for you where you're going to have to probably do a short they might be able to do a one time close. You're going have to refinance everything together, I think.
Don't know for sure. That's if you already own the dirt, then I'm not going to be able to help you because it's more of a, like an automobile sale. If you're just looking to purchase a trailer and bring it to a, to the dirt that you already own, that's not real estate. So I wouldn't be able to help with that. That's more of a, like an automobile purchase.
Okay, let's go for Audrey says Fort Worth three or four bedroom, two bath, fifteen to eighteen hundred square foot single home all day long. Let's do it. Let's do it. Okay. Okay. I want to go up because I feel like I have missed some questions.
Okay.
Jan says any legit grant programs. Tell me what you mean by that, Jan, because I don't think we talked about anything that wasn't legit. I think maybe what you mean is, like like, is it just straight up, no strings, no forgivable second lien? It's just like free money.
Yes? Some TDHCA and T check have some flavors of that, but those income caps, I believe, are gonna be a little bit lower to get the just like free grant situation. So we'd have to see kind of how that compares to what it is that you earn and we can talk to a really good loan officer who's a real ninja about that stuff. Jamie says or Jaime, tell me how to pronounce that.
Any rural areas around the Austin Metro? The answer is yes. Okay. The answer is yes.
And so we could look out toward Bastrop. We could look out toward Elgin. We just have to really watch the taxes in some of those areas, Jamie, because we are looking in areas that sometimes tip into what are called PUD or PIDS and MUDs.
If you've ever heard the term PID or MUD, let me tell you what that means.
If I am a developer and I go to build a subdivision that is outside the city limits, then the city is not on the hook for putting sewer and water service out there. Well, that stuff is millions of dollars per mile now. So what has to happen is that the developer has to create a district, a taxing district. That taxing district borrows what's called a bond, which is a really nice way to say a huge thirty year loan.
Okay? So thirty or forty years, they're going to pay that bond off by taxing the people who live there. So it's an extra tax on top of your property taxes. And sometimes it's not disclosed very well.
Okay. So it can be the difference in like sometimes two to three hundred dollars a month on your payment. So sometimes we see a big shiny subdivision that's outside the city limits. We gotta look really deep into that and go where they get in their water, where they get in their sewer services, because sometimes the answer is from a very expensive taxable district.
So let's let's take a look at where you're looking and maybe create some alternative recommendations that, you know, use a water co op, for example. Maybe if we're looking rural on a bigger piece of land, we could even do something with a septic so that you don't have to pay taxes on that thing forever.
Let's see, Lisette says, I like a three to four bed, two to three bath. I have the cash, but no credit. No credit is not bad credit. So if you've never used credit before and you're a credit ghost, that's not bad credit.
Okay. We could use alternative trade lines then. We need to get out of a very stressful situation we've been going through for years. Okay.
YNA says, please list the sixty six first time home buyers. I'm not going to list sixty six programs right now. I am going to put that list in your email as promised at the top of the call. That email goes out tomorrow between twelve and one pm.
James is going to send that out in my name. He protects me from forgetting it. He makes sure that it actually gets done. So absolutely, I'll send it, but we're not going go through all of that tonight.
You're welcome. Can't wait to get that email. Okay, fantastic. Dwight says I'm looking at a four bedroom, three bath in Mesquite new build need help watch it.
Dwight, because I think I know the development you're talking about. That's the highest single property tax. Actually it might be number two now. There's one in Princeton that's worse.
That's the highest single property tax area with in DFW. Now it's a great life. If it's the one I'm thinking about, let's book your call and let's talk about it.
Going back to Lisette, we'll make sure that you book your call because we can, we'll figure something out there. Okay. It's really coming down to who has the income. So cash bucket is good.
Credit bucket is good, but income is the hardest problem to solve and everything's going to spin off of the person who can actually pay the note. Okay. So we'll talk about that. Make sure that you book your call.
I'm happy to ideate with you so that we can get you out of that very stressful situation. Mark says any multifamily with twelve percent return after cap, not in Texas.
I just, we, if we go to deep East Texas and buy a hundred thousand dollars houses. Yeah.
Booked my call for Thursday. Yes.
Texas doesn't cash flow in the way that it used to. It just plain doesn't. And you know, there Mark, one of the things that stacked against you there is if you live in one side of it, if you live in one side of the duplex, now that becomes interesting because you can still claim your homestead exemption. And we saw part of the property tax issue, but insurance costs have gone wildly up. And when we look at those properties, they're almost always in bad shape.
So the ones that actually cash flow are usually not in amazing shape. So Texas is not a great investment market right now. Also, you are light on cash, I don't know if this was you I was talking to earlier, if it was somebody else. If you have a big bucket of cash, this is viable.
If you do not have cash and you want to use down payment assistance to buy multifamily, it is a terrible, terrible idea every time. Okay. So what's going to happen for all of you who want to be landlords? This is awesome.
You should have this goal because you should want to build your portfolio. Not if you don't have cash, because what's going to happen to you is that let's say that you bought a fourplex and you live in one side, then you have three units to rent. That's amazing. And there are situations out there like Killeen, for example, we might still be able to get something to kind of cash flow in Killeen because of the soldiers and what they pay versus what it costs.
But with investment rates being higher than they used to be and multifamily rates rather being higher than they used to be, the cost of property taxes, insurance, it's just really hard to make it cash flow rents are down. So what'll happen to you though, is that there's going be a tenant who's going to leave Mark in the middle of the night and they're going to take the stove and they are going to screw up that place and it's going to cost you five or ten grand to get it better. So if we don't have any cash, how are we going to do that? Then what's going to happen is you're going to put it back on the market for lease and it's going to sit there for three months and then you're going to have to pay a realtor to help you lease it out.
So now you've got eat another month and you know, it's just, it's a lot of lift and it's very difficult to make that work when the numbers aren't super positive every month, especially if something catastrophic happens in the early days. So I've seen that, that idea that works on paper. I've seen it take it, take people down in practice. So just be really, really careful about that.
If you've got a big pot of money, who cares? Rock and roll. Yep. You can do it.
Okay. Let's go back to Dwight says I booked my call for Thursday. Fantastic. Let's go.
What kind of questions do you guys have that we have not answered yet?
I think okay.
I'm gonna go back up.
Go back up. Go back up. Go back up. I think we got everything.
Okay, thanks James, appreciate that. If you have some Let me ask you a question. Does anybody have someone in your life who needs to learn what you learned tonight?
Maybe that is an adult child.
Maybe that, Lisette, thank you for asking that. She just asked is the fifteen minute call free. Yes, absolutely. I should have led with that.
You're absolutely right. A hundred percent. Yeah. No. It's we're just gonna hang out on the phone and I'm gonna ask you a bunch of questions and make you talk to me.
Yeah. And tell you dad jokes. That's the that's the cost of this is sitting through a dad joke or two. So Kathy has a good one.
Oh, no, no. Let me get back to this. If you have someone who needs to hear what you learned tonight, we kind of find that birds of a feather flock together and we would like to work with people who are just like you, who are curious and who have really good questions and who make, who want to make this happen for them. So here's the thing.
I don't want to ambush anybody. So I'm going to ask you to like text or call them first and get their permission. Okay. So don't do this if we're not going to like get there.
Okay. First, but if you want to introduce us to that individual by sharing their contact information after you have their approval, James is going to paste the link in the chat box where you can do that right now. And you can always just text him on the side and he'll take care of it as well. Group texting gets weird.
Don't I used to ask people to put me on a group text, but it doesn't come through right in the system. So text James and he'll coordinate with you. Or you can just go to this link. If you make that introduction and they confirm that, they're in Texas.
Yes. They want to buy a home.
No, they don't already have a realtor and, you know, they're a real person, not a robot. Like I am happy to share with you a thank you gift of fifty dollars of Amazon gift card. And I do that digitally. So you get it instantly.
So if they make that connection and they're real, they are not already committed to using another real estate company. Then I am all about having that conversation and saying thank you with that. Also something that you should know that's going on right now that hasn't gone on in a long time, probably fifteen years is that there are some smart sellers and some smart builders who are helping our buyers out with their early termination fee on their lease. Now, as soon as the market turns in the favor of the sellers at all, like even the slightest, that's going to go away first.
Then the closing costs concessions will go away. Then they'll start rejecting your zero percent down program. So somebody was like, Hey, I don't know if I should buy right now. If you don't, if you don't see yourself having a big fat down payment in the next like three years, then if we're going to be honest, like you need to buy while the market is soft because you will be shut out when it turns around.
The worst thing that could happen to you right now, if you are a buyer who has a marginal file or who doesn't have a lot of cash, the worst thing that could happen is that interest rates dropped to five percent. Why is that the worst thing that could happen? It drops your payment, right? Isn't that good?
No, because everybody and their brother is going to buy a house and all of these people who do have money and down payments are going to stomp a mud hole in you when it's time to go into these mud, these multiple offer situations, You will lose, lose, lose every time. And the only house you're going to get are the scrap leftovers. Now, right now, because the market is soft, it's totally opposite. The builders are out there.
Yes, of course. I would love to take your zero percent down program. They're going to turn their nose up at all of it when the market turns and they will tell you to kick rocks.
It's going to be rough when it happens because there's all this pent up demand and it's going to be really ugly, but yep. I can't help him if he's in Florida. I wish. Yeah.
You got a firefighter buddy that's like a son. I love that. Remember we have a, we have a what do you call it? A there's a special carve out for firefighters in either TDHCA or T Shaq or both.
I can't remember. I'll have to go look it up for you before our call.
Dwight says the community of Solterra incredibly high property taxes, the highest in all of DFW, except for one community, one little pocket I found in North North Princeton. So just be advised that you're going to pay a lot of money that is going to a pseudo government entity that you would not pay if you were a mile down the road. Okay. But yes, the programs do apply there.
And Dwight, we can do that math together on the call. I love that community, by the way, it hasn't yet lived up to its potential, but when they get all of that cool stuff built in the concert hall and or whatever amphitheater thing, it's going to be amazing, but it's just fricking expensive and your money's not going into your house. It's going to a pseudo government entity. Kathy says, does debt attached to investment property counts against you?
The answer is yes, but if you have rents, then seventy five percent of the rents will go to balancing out the debt. So they, the debt attaches from the investment property, but so does the income Kathy.
So we should be able to make that a wash or even a positive. Okay. As long as it's rented and not just sitting there and you're eating a payment on it every month. Okay.
Yep. Absolutely. All right, guys. It looks like I answered all the questions that was super duper fun.
I'm glad you spent your evening with me. I hope that it was valuable to you and I hope that you feel more confident and more optimistic about your situation moving forward. I can't wait to talk to you. Don't forget if you don't actually show up to stuff, please cancel the appointment because somebody else desperately needs that appointment.
I get really booked really fast a little bit later in the week. So just be respectful of their time and mine. Thank you very much. This was awesome.
I cannot wait to have these conversations. Absolutely. Okay, we'll talk to you guys soon. Y'all take care.
Have a good one. Thank you, James, my MVP. I appreciate you buddy.
Support
Captions updated